In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Now the earth was formless and empty
darkness was over the surface of the deep and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. And God said
Let there be light and there was light. God saw that the light was good and he separated the light
from the darkness. God called the light day and the darkness he called night. And there was evening
and there was morning the first day. And God said Let there be a vault between the waters to separate water
from water. So God made the vault and separated the water under the vault from the water above it.
And it was so God called the vault sky. And there was evening and there was morning the second day.
And God said Let the water under the sky be gathered to one place and let dry ground appear. And it was
so God called the dry ground land and the gathered waters he called seas. And God saw that it was
good. Then God said Let the land produce vegetation seed bearing plants and trees on the land that bear
fruit with seed in it according to their various kinds. And it was so. The land produced vegetation
plants bearing seed according to their kinds and trees bearing fruit with seed in it according to their kinds.
And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the third day. And God said Let
there be lights in the vault of the sky to separate the day from the night and let them serve as signs to
mark sacred times and days and years and let them be lights in the vault of the sky to give light on the
earth. And it was so. God made two great lights the greater light to govern the day and the lesser
light to govern the night. He also made the stars. God set them in the vault of the sky to give light
on the earth to govern the day and the night and to separate light from darkness. And God saw that
it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the fourth day. And God said Let the water
teem with living creatures and let birds fly above the earth across the vault of the sky. So God
created the great creatures of the sea and every living thing with which the water teems and that moves
about in it according to their kinds and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it
was good. God blessed them and said Be fruitful and increase in number and fill the water in the seas
and let the birds increase on the earth. And there was evening and there was morning the fifth day.